All companies store data from a simple record book of a small business maybe even on a journal or a
piece of paper two massive companies like Amazon that need computers to store petabytes of data.
Now in order to store this information pretty much every company and sometimes individuals to need something
called a database.
We saw in the last section how hard it was to have our server.
Remember a new user every time the server crashed.
The variable will get reset and then it would start all over.
Or if we wanted to do a log in or sign and check and iterate through the e-mails and passwords during
a loop through javascript that's inefficient.
That's where database come to the rescue.
So let's ask ourselves what is a database.
A database is a collection of data.
And what we mean by data.
There are many forms of them right.
There can be numbers there can be dates there could be password hashes.
There could be user information databases allow us to organize this data in a way that is useful to
us and makes data management easy and something came out of that.
And it's called database management system or DBMSs for short.
It's a collection of programs which allows us to access databases and work with data.
And it also allows control access to database users so 8 DBI mass is something in this box something
that allows us a tool or a piece of software that allows us to communicate with the database store information
that's useful for us and also allows us to update insert delete look up whatever's in the database.
And this idea of a DBMSs really started to take shape in 1960s and now it is at the forefront of many
exciting things.
There's an entire industry of Engineers that just work with databases because it is so important.
Now there are two types of DBMSs that are really popular right now and that we're going to talk about
in this course.
And these two types are represented really well by postscripts and Mongo DB.
Let's talk about the first one which is relational database and this is probably the most popular as
you can see on the right hand side.
You see that all of these are relational databases.
Postscripts Oracle ask you all server you may have heard of my ask you I'll ask you a light.
These are all types of databases that have this relational database tag to them.
And the beauty with them is that they're all pretty much similar.
They all follow a same standard format.
Relational databases consist of two or more tables with columns and rows.
So in this case users is a table and full name user name tax created out our columns and whatever values
they have here are rows.
Each row represents an entry and each column sorts a very specific type of information like name address
or phone numbers.
And then the relation between tables and fields is called a schema in a relational database.
The schema must be clearly defined before any information can be added and if this is confusing right
now don't worry we're actually going to create these databases so it makes sense to you.
If we had Twitter for example you can see over here the types of tables that we would have and how we
would organize it.
We would have a user stable a tweet table a following table and we can connect all these information.
For example by connecting different pieces of the table for example the user name will be the same in
the Users table as it is in the tweets table.
That way we can say that the username and the tweets table is the foreign key of the username in the
Users table and then from user will be the foreign key of username and the following table.
Now things like full name or ID something that identifies each row in a table is called a primary key
and we'll go through that later on in the section.
All right so all these databases we're going to learn about postscripts skewl but they're all pretty
much the same.
So once you know on it's fairly easy to pick up the other ones how do they actually communicate with
the server with the Bakken well all relational databases use something called Eskew well
and Escudero allows us to communicate just like a CTP did between the front end and the Bakhit with
Eskew or we're able to communicate with the database and modify or get or update wherever we want and
we'll have a video on this topic as well.
All right so that's relational databases.
What about the second type.
The second type is called a non relational database or a no rescue database.
And once again there are many many different types of databases with some cool names like Koshti and
hyper table.
Now a mongo D-B or a non-relational database lets you build an application without having to define
the schema first.
Unlike a relational database if we go back to relational database this schema or these tables have to
kind of be predefined rate.
We need to know how our app is going to look make these tables so that once the app is public we can
start entering user information and tweets and followers with no rescue all or non-relational database.
We can't just define it as we go and they all have different ways of storing this information so each
one is very very different.
And this is another powerful reason to use a non relational database is that if your data requirements
aren't clear at the outset of your project and maybe have a massive amount of structure data you may
not have the luxury of developing a relational database with a clearly defined schema.
They offer instead a greater flexibility in that a non relational database are more like folders just
assembling related information of all types.
No Mongo D-B is something called document oriented.
It stores information as documents.
Let me illustrate this point to you.
I have my desktop here with two folders.
One is a really relational database.
And here I have users tweets profile following and you can think of relational databases with this type
of storage where this folder lives somewhere on a computer that stores this information and any time
we need to ask a database for something while we grab the users and if we you also want to grab the
tweets of the user we find the user that we're interested in then find the tweets of the user that we're
also interested in with the foreign key that links to the users and we can also find however many followers
that user has.
We grab that information and display it on our web
Mongo D-B on the other hand will actually have each user as a document.
So if I wanted to grab the first user.
Well I just grab this document and it has all the followers the tweets the profile everything is in
this one document and you might be thinking Mongo D-MI looks like a better choice than having this way
of doing things right.
Well it depends on your need and that's why database's is such a complex topic.
It really really depends on your situation.
You can see this Mongo D-B way being very useful if you have something like a profile maybe a linked
in profile.
But if you needed something where you're working was just following data or just tweets data maybe with
the tweets you want to see what is the average tweet size.
Well it's really easy to just grab this file and calculate that versus this way where you might have
to extract it from each one of the users.
So it really depends on your needs.
Michelle you another diagram that might be useful.
When we look at relational versus non relational databases you can think of relational as.
Each table has a block posts a block tag a block comment and it links the stables to give the blog information
versus a non-relational that stores this entire block post in an entry and has comments tax categories
and all other related data just in one single place.
So what does Mongo DB use to communicate.
If we go back to our example here we had ask you all for relational databases such as postscripts.
Mongo D-B has its own what we call query language and it is just the Mongo D-B query language
but they both aim to do the same thing.
That is to communicate with the database provide an easy way for the server to communicate with the
database.
And in this section we're going to be talking about that and we're going to finally connect the dots
and show you the power of databases once they're connected to a server.
I'll see in the next one.
But by.